hello everyone welcome to part 2 of our
quarters chest 2010 video featuring
grandmaster vladimir kramnik former
world champion with the white pieces
versus American superstar Grandmaster
Hikaru Nakamura my personally met
several times was very nice guy i met
him in a managed a long time ago seemed
to make us team an amateur tournament
it's great great talent and if you get
to see a car will play live he's uh
definitely always gotta has crowds
around his games very charismatic guy
whatever that it factor is he definitely
has it enough I was no he's going to be
a superstar same with Al Fatiha fabiano
caruana very very strong play I played
him when he was about seven years old I
was black and since going more defense
and I overlooked the movie made it
sacrifice I've been looking for the game
I had to dig do some paperwork to find
it but I remember the game I want to use
this a little kid but anyway back to the
game this is part two I hope you saw
part 1 because this video we're starting
off with the move 11 rook d1 and I'll
here I gave this move in my analysis
kind of like a question mark with ex
glam next to it because I felt that
Kramnik shoulda exploited the lack of
development in nakamoto's position by
this taking the d takes a 5 let's look
at that d take c5 d take c5 Bishop 83
all a classic chest man you will say the
opponent is behind and development open
up the position and some time and
moderate says we
we say you know rules are made to be
broken at some time we just avoid just
the obvious and I think the obvious here
is except the double corns as weakness
and open up the position perhaps crime
Nick figure it wasn't a decisive enough
advantage to take such a long term
weakness into the endgame but I feel
here that spoke with so rookie a 496
Queen 84f takes work ft one queen of six
Knight d2 d3 good move just getting rid
of the weakness by causing our opponent
it make a weakness in position bit of
860 Katie 197 anticipating the next move
94 Bishop f5 a nice x-ray so you see
black is trying to get it into the game
queen bee three some lines threatening
this move with the discovery gets the
Queen and also just simply take a nap on
with kb eight Bishop d6 so that's one
line and I feel a wave is better here
again if I your pointer can't exploit a
weakness or take advantage of it is it
really a weakness that's one of those
catch-22 it's one of those conundrums
you know if a tree falls down in the
woods and nobody and you're not there
well I do you know you know it fell down
if you didn't hear the sounds one of
those kind of things or yeah I probably
messed it up but something like that you
know double pawns as a weakness yes but
if it can't be exploited in hours a week
matter of fact that's very strong here
and also on d take c5 another option for
blankets of course rook f7 you see that
a lot to the same ideas efore and just
explaining the lack of development here
and then I feel like after night g 5y
has a good game say 95
see
brooke d 7 or something this of d6
that's good that's good good strong move
solid position for for white here so
after work t1 which actually threatens
to take this Gators Nakamura chance to
just close up the position so he plays
efore and now what black is gaming space
and at the same time he can consolidate
and catch up and development 95
869 h3g five
f3
and to me this is probably the most
important move of the game here and I
was missed by Nakamura and if he played
this move I felt that he could have
definitely been equal in the game you
played b5 here which looks like a very
it actually is a lot of people just play
d 5 is very normal move the problem with
d5 is that's immediately what does it do
if you look at it it allows white to get
rid of his weakness so you're helping
your opponent which old text old test
man you will tell you don't do it so
what it does is it helps your opponent
because you can trade off his weakness
and then now you have a target on d5
because that now your porn base has
moved to d5 so it over to two things on
lights favor so that's it though red
flags up in a position hey I should not
do this move so you might ask well how
do you protect against the threat to the
e4 pointing and my answer to that is
Queen e7
now it's based on several tactical
principles well you say well just take
okay so f take c4f takes e4 night f2 has
to be playing a game is equal now why
night if so because if this it takes you
see that red owl pointing from the sea a
vegetable with h street that means that
bishop is hanging and because of crime
next maneuver here it allows us tactic
to be possible so we would have to play
Knight f2 and now III would be played
Queenie 79 f 2 as opposed to taking
right just night us to III right away
night d3 at four fish weighed 396 and
black is like is okay no white has
minimal pressure in the position and
blackheads exactly what he was now black
is relatively caught up in development
Bishop f5 is coming soon so the game is
up for grabs but you'll see the
difference between the serenity black
has in this line as opposed to what
actually happened in the game so do the
time constraints we're going to end this
part of the video right here the f3 and
d5 and we're going to get in to the
second portion of the game in our next
video and we're going to take it up with
d5 which I told you is it is a
positional mistake so I hope you enjoyed
the video and hope you stay with me I'm
trying to give some more detailed
analysis and some more substance to the
games so that you cannot get some more
enjoyment out of them so i'll see you on
the next video